Add popover documentation for methods, events, and psuedo selectors (#26145)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/htmlelement/beforetoggle_event/index.md

---
title: "HTMLElement: beforetoggle event"
slug: Web/API/HTMLElement/beforetoggle_event
page-type: web-api-event
browser-compat: api.HTMLElement.beforetoggle_event
---

{{APIRef}}

The **`beforetoggle`** event fires when an element with the [`popover`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/popover) attribute is about to be opened or closed.

> If the element is currently not open, then the `.oldState` property will be set to `'closed'` and the `.newState` property will be set to `'open'`, otherwise if the element is open then `.oldState` will be `'open'` and `.newState` will be `'closed'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the element is currently not open, then the `.oldState` property will be set to `closed` and the `.newState` property will be set to `open`; otherwise if the element is open, then `.oldState` will be `open` and `.newState` will be `closed`.
```

## Syntax

Use the event name in methods like {{domxref("EventTarget.addEventListener", "addEventListener()")}}, or set an event handler property.

```js
addEventListener("beforetoggle", (event) => {});

onbeforetoggle = (event) => {};
```

## Event type

A {{domxref("ToggleEvent")}}. Inherits from {{domxref("Event")}}.

{{InheritanceDiagram("ToggleEvent")}}

## Event properties

_This interface inherits properties from its parent {{DOMxRef("Event")}}._

- {{DOMxRef("ToggleEvent.oldState")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}

>   - : Returns a string of either `'open'` or `'closed'`, depending on which state the element is transitioning from.
> - {{DOMxRef("ToggleEvent.newState")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
>   - : Returns a string of either `'open'` or `'closed'`, depending on which state the element is transitioning to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Returns either `open` or `closed`, depending on which state the element is transitioning from.
- {{DOMxRef("ToggleEvent.newState")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}
  - : Returns either `open` or `closed`, depending on which state the element is transitioning to.
```
